federalist nine the union as a safeguard
against domestic faction and
insurrection for the independent journal
hamilton to the people of the state of
new york
a firm union will be of the utmost
moment to the peace and liberty of the
states
as a barrier against domestic faction
and insurrection
it is impossible to read the history of
the petty republics of greece in italy
without feeling sensations of horror and
disgust at the distractions with which
they were continually agitated and at
the rapid succession of revolutions by
which they were kept in a state of
perpetual vibration
between the extremes of tyranny and
anarchy
if they exhibit occasional calms these
only serve as short-lived
contrast to the furious storms that are
to succeed
if now in the intervals of felicity open
to view we behold them with a mixture of
regret
arising from the reflection that the
pleasing scenes before us are soon to be
overwhelmed by the tempestuous waves of
sedition and party rage
if momentary rays of glory break forth
from the gloom
while they dazzle us with a transient
and fleeting brilliancy they at the same
time admonish us to lament that the
vices of government should pervert the
direction and tarnish the luster of
those bright talents and exalted
endowments for which the favored soils
that produce them have been so justly
celebrated
from the disorders that disfigure the
annals of those republics
advocates of despotism have drawn
arguments not only against the forms of
republican government
but against the very principles of civil
liberty they have decried all free
government as inconsistent with the
order of society and have indulged
themselves in malicious exaltation
over its friends and partisans happy for
mankind
stupendous fabrics reared on the basis
of liberty which have flourished for
ages
have in a few glorious instances refuted
their gloomy sophisms
and i trust america will be the broad
and solid foundation of other edifices
not less magnificent which will be
equally permanent monuments of their
errors
but it is not to be denied that the
portraits they have sketched of
republican government
were two just copies of the originals
from which they were taken
if it had been found impracticable to
have devised models of a more perfect
structure the enlightened friends to
liberty would have obliged to abandon
the cause of that species of government
as indefensible
the science of politics however like
most other sciences
has received great improvement the
efficacy of various principles is now
well understood
which were either not known at all or
imperfectly known to the ancients
the regular distribution of power into
distinct departments
the introduction of legislative balances
and checks the institution of courts
composed of judges holding their offices
during good behavior
the representation of the people in the
legislature by deputies of their own
election
these are holy new discoveries or have
made their principle progress towards
perfection in modern
times they are means and powerful means
by which the excellence of republican
government
may be retained and its imperfections
lessened or avoided
to this catalog of circumstances that
tend to the amelioration of popular
systems of civil government
i shall venture however novel it may
appear to some to add one more
on a principle which has been made the
foundation of an objection to the new
constitution
i mean the enlargement of the orbit
within which such systems are to revolve
either in respect to the dimension of a
single state or to the consolidation of
several smaller states into one great
confederacy
the latter is that which immediately
concerns the object under consideration
it will however be of use to examine the
principle in its application to a single
state which shall be attended to in
another place
the utility of a confederacy as well to
suppress faction
and to guard the internal tranquility of
states as to increase their external
force and security is in reality not a
new idea
it has been practiced upon in different
countries and ages and has received the
sanction of the most approved writers on
the subject of politics
the opponents of the plan proposed have
with great assiduity
cited and circulated the observations of
montesquieu on the necessity of a
contracted territory for a republican
government
but they seem not to have been apprised
of the sentiments of that great man
expressed in another part of his work
nor to have averted to the consequences
of the principle to which they subscribe
with which-ready acquiescence
when montesquieu recommends a small
extent for republics
the standards he had in view were of
dimensions far short of the limits of
almost every one of these states
neither virginia massachusetts
pennsylvania new york north carolina
north georgia can by any means be
compared with the models from which he
reasoned
and which the terms of his description
apply if we therefore take his ideas on
this point as the criterion of truth
we shall be driven to the alternative
either of taking refuge at once in the
arms of monarchy or
splitting ourselves into an infinity of
little jealous clashing tumultuous
commonwealths
the wretched nurseries of unceasing
discord and the miserable objects of
universal pity and contempt
some of the writers who have come
forward on the other side of the
question seem to have been aware of the
dilemma and have even been bold enough
to hint at the division of the larger
states as a desirable thing
such an infatuated policy such a
desperate expedient might by the
multiplication of petty offices answered
the views of men who possess not
qualifications to extend their influence
beyond the narrow circles of personal
intrigue but it could never promote the
greatness or happiness of the people of
america
referring the examination of the
principle itself to another place
as has been already mentioned it will be
sufficient to remark here that in the
sense of the author who has been most
emphatically quoted upon the occasion
it would only dictate a reduction of the
size of the more considerable members of
the union but would not militate against
their being all comprehended in one
confederate government
and this is the true question in the
discussion of which we are at present
interested
so far the suggestions of montesquieu
from standing in opposition to a general
union of the states
that he explicitly treats of a
confederate republic as the expedient
for extending the sphere of a popular
government
and reconciling the advantages of
monarchy with those of republicanism
it is very probable says he spirit of
laws volume 1
book 9 chapter 1 that mankind would have
been obliged at length to live
constantly under the government of a
single person
had they not contrived a kind of
constitution that has all the internal
advantages of a republican
together with the external force of a
monarchical government i mean a
confederate republic
this form of government is a convention
by which several smaller states agree to
become members of a larger one
which they intend to form it is a kind
of assemblage of societies that
constitute a new one
capable of increasing by means of new
associations till they arrive to such a
degree of power
as to be able to provide for the
security of the united body
a republic of this kind able to
withstand an external force may support
itself without any internal corruptions
the form of this society prevents all
manner of inconveniences
if a single member should attempt to
usurp the supreme authority
he could not be supposed to have an
equal authority and credit in all the
confederate states
were he to have too great influence over
one this would alarm the rest
were he to subdue apart that which would
still remain free
might oppose him with forces independent
of those which he had usurped
and overpower him before he could be
settled in his usurpation
should a popular insurrection happen in
one of the confederate states
the others are able to quell it should
abuses creep into one part they are
reformed by those that remain sound
the state may be destroyed on one side
and not on the other the confederacy may
be dissolved and the confederacies
preserve their sovereignty as this
government is composed of small
republics
it enjoys the internal happiness of each
and with respect to its external
situation
it is possessed by means of the
association of all the advantages of
large monarchies
i have thought it proper to quote at
length these interesting passages
because they contain luminous
abridgement of the principal arguments
in favor of the union
and must effectually remove the false
impressions which a misapplication of
other parts of the work was calculated
to make
they have at the same time an intimate
connection with the more immediate
design of this paper
which is to illustrate the tendency of
the union to repress domestic faction
and insurrection
a distinction more subtle than accurate
has been raised between a confederacy
and a consolidation of the states
the essential characteristic of the
first is said to be the restriction of
its authority to the members in their
collective capacities without reaching
to the individuals of whom they are
composed
it is contended that the national
council ought to have no concern
with any object of internal
administration an exact equality of
suffrage between the members has also
been insisted upon as a leading feature
of confederate government
these positions are in the main
arbitrary they are supported neither by
principle nor precedent
it has indeed happened that governments
of this kind have generally operated in
the manner which the distinction taken
notice of
supposes to be inherent in their nature
but there have been in most of them
extensive exceptions to the practice
which serve to prove
as far as example will go that there is
no absolute rule
on the subject and it will be clearly
shown in the course of this
investigation that as far as the
principal contended for has prevailed it
has been the cause of incurable disorder
and imbecility in the government
the definition of a confederate republic
seems simply to be
an assemblage of societies or an
association of two or more states into
one state
the extent modifications and objects of
the federal authority are mere matters
of discretion
so long as the separate organization of
the members be not abolished
so long as it exists by a constitutional
necessity for local purposes though it
should be imperfect subordination to the
general authority of the union it would
still be
in fact and in theory an association of
states or a confederacy
the proposed constitution so far from
implying an abolition of the state
governments
makes them constituent parts of the
national sovereignty by allowing them a
direct representation in the senate
and leaves in their possessions certain
exclusive and very important portions of
sovereign power
this fully corresponds in every rational
import of the terms with the idea of
federal government
in the lycian confederacy which
consisted of 23 cities
or republics the largest were entitled
to three votes in the common council
those of the middle class to two and the
smallest to one
the common council had the appointment
of all the judges and magistrates of
their respective cities
this was certainly the most delicate
species of interference in their
internal administration
for if there be anything that seems
exclusively appropriated to the local
jurisdictions
it is the appointment of their own
officers yet montesquieu speaking of
this association
says were i to give a model of an
excellent confederate republic
it would be that of lycia thus we
perceive that the distinctions insisted
upon were not within the contemplation
of this enlightened civilian
and we should be led to conclude that
they are the novel refinements of an
erroneous theory
publius